INPUT
	Grid Data
		variable data slots (variable storage)
	Reference Data
		country masks, boundry definitions
		how define area shapes?
	Data Definitions
		defining necessary data in the grid (validity check?)
	Output Definitions
		xml struture
			depth, resolution, completeness
		data manipulation
			define bank of functions seperately? (in data definitions?)

OUTPUT
	XML Output - Based on Output Definitions
	Output Options
		Map
		Excel
		NetCDF
		ASCII

ISSUES
	Scalable Grid Resolutions
		Data Structure: PR-quadtree variation?
		user choice for output and input?
	Method of Defining Operations
		regular expression interpretation
		define in Output Definition?
	Repeated use
		save data in xml form? read in data as existing structure?
		multilevel quadtree or quadtrie?
			tree- would not have additional computation time for different resolutions
			trie- would take much less space and, for creating the structure, much less time
				updates to the trie would propogate when? on load on on next use of structure
		single run vs multirun
			single run- could build a goal specific structure, no need to store information beyond desired resolution
			multirun- could have one large preprocessing run, subsequently generate results much quicker
	
Structures
	NEEDS
		-various undefined resolutions
		-fast subregion extraction
		-combining and 'splitting' of regions (pretty much suggests a tree structure)
	ASSUMPTIONS
		-no regions overlap
	QUESTIONS
		-block heirarchy vs region heirarchy
			should the parent of a region be its logical parent region, or its spatial parent?
		-ordered on blocks vs ordered on regions (sortof the same question)
			should boundaries be region boundaries or predetermined quadtree boundaries?
		-quadtree vs pyramid ordering
			pyramid stores general information of children
			combine the two? quadtree ordering with summary or averaged information in parents?
	PR Quadtree (region based)
		regular rules apply except use the idea from PM-1 Quadtree regarding line segments laying in different blocks
		each block can contain only one region or part thereof
		block boundaries are not closed
		***would have infinite or near infinite splitting to fit regions
	Regiontree (i might be inventing this which is probably bad)
		each node is a region, which is either a leaf region or has 2 or more child regions
		the sum of a region's children is itself
		leaf regions contain all data on as specific a level as possible (trie)
			*how can we do fast searches? once in a region, use region bounds, but to find that region would be linear time
	Region Quadtree (what i refered to as a region based PRQuadtree, but i actually found a definition)
		operates on the assumption that there is some delimitation on resolution (can we do that?)
		also assumes that resolution operates on some similar scale
			***how to reconcile 1/10 deg with 1/12 deg? have to go to 1/60 deg scale?
		requires a block to be completely filled by a region
	Quad Regiontree (another thing im making up)
			kindof like a B+ of order 4
		like a region quadtree, except allows up to 4 regions to lie in one block
		allows higher resolution with less blocks
	