Documentation of intentional changes
1) Changing names of biofuels to be more clear
2) Revised assignments of first-generation biofuel production based on actual (2010) production in all regions
3) refined liquids enduse and refined liquids industrial are now pass-through sectors, with only one refining sector. In the future, biofuels could be moved from a subsector in "refining" to a subsector in "refined liquids enduse"
4) all technologies are now in the global technology database, with stub-technologies used only for region-specific calibration and adjustments to parameters
5) Additional CCS costs and intensity penalties are captured in the "non-energy" or "capital-cost" input-cost parameters rather than the standard capture component or the power plant capture component (this is less confusing)
6) removed "exotics" as an electric technology
7) adjusting 2015 shareweight paths for electricity techs now that 2010 is a calibration year
8) no detailed electric sector in the US
9) existing vintages in the power sector are not broken out as separate technologies
10) natural gas combined cycle is disaggregated from steam/combustion turbines in the historical time period, using exogenous assumptions about the efficiencies of each technology. This works well for all regions except those with high shares of CHP.
11) Equal rounding of decimals for all elements of any nest. Electric sector CCS tech efficiencies had been rounded to 2 decimal places whereas corresponding non-CCS techs were rounded to 3.
12) nuclear electric efficiencies set to 0.333 in all periods (not varying between 0.333 and 0.34)
13) reading in all electric technology costs as capital, fixed om, and variable om (incl. rooftop pv and geothermal)
14) using a fixed capacity factor over time for wind
15) Not decreasing ownuse IO coefs over time. The only reason we did before was a mis-understanding of what ownuse was. It isn't an inefficiency or loss; it simply reflects the share of AUTOELEC as opposed to MAINELEC and MAINCHP, which aren't being modeled.
16) Hydrogen technologies adjusted efficiencies. Old efficiencies didn't take into account secondary inputs/outputs of electricity and as such CCS techs had higher efficiencies
17) Got rid of solar_no_backup and wind_no_backup because they are useless and antediluvian
18) Remapped IEA's "Other" fuel inputs to cement production in the USA from biomass to pet coke. Based on DOE-PI project with NEMS.
19) Added a 0.15$/GJ delivery charge to the "unconventional oil" technology of "regional oil". Suspect that not having this in GCAM 3.0 was an unintentional omission, or perhaps was done to avoid changing the costs. Either way the delivery and other charges for "crude oil" and "unconventional oil" are the same once they're part of the same infrastructure, so this shouldn't differ between the two.
20) Unconventional oil. Needed to modify a shortcut--grades 3 and 4 were fictitious and made it so that the quantity available in the model was 25x Rogner's estimates. These higher grades caused solution instability at the higher grades for the regions where they are produced, which are exactly the regions that shouldn't be producing any at all. Also, the Middle East and Africa regions were mixed up; the former should have a large amount of the resource, not the latter. The fixes include: (1) killing grade 4, and computing grade 3 so that the global total (grades 1,2,3) is equal to Rogner's total; and (2) switching the resource quantities in the Middle East and Africa.
21) Buildings. using http://eetd.lbl.gov/sites/all/files/low-co-growth-india-2011.pdf as the floorspace inventory for India commercial sector (660 bm2 instead of 460 bm2)
22) Buildings. There are currently significant differences between the GlobalFloorspace.xls[Synthesis] and the values assumed in the model, found in the global_det_bld_input.xls[Floorspace]. I used the values from the former worksheet, because while they were obviously assumptions, they (a) had some basis in data, and (b) came from a method that could pretty easily be applied to more countries/regions. Most of the different numbers between these two tables were made up--unlinked and not documented as far as I can tell. Still, this causes substantial base-year differences in the floorspace inventories, and because the satiation levels are not modified, this also leads to differences in the satiation-adders and the relative growth from the base year in floorspace.
23) revision to energy balances. 2007 edition had a large amount of biomass in ONONSPEC (other sectors non-specified, which we map to commercial sector), which the 2012 edition maps to the residential sector. This results in a change in the allocation of energy between res and comm for all of africa, with implications for future period output.
24) reduced traditional biomass in China too

*Note that "heat output" used to be reported in TJ but now seems to be reported in ktoe


Notes for documentation:
Possible approaches for doing the n-region breakout:
1) Keep all additional regions contained within existing GCAM regions
2) Downscale all data to country, including data from GCAM 3.0 that is not built up from less aggregated data
3) Generate an "intermediate" set of regions, where all are contained within one and only one current GCAM region, but then these are later aggregated into a new set

The data that is input at the region level and not available at smaller scales (but ultimately should be) includes resource curves (all), future hydropower, near-term shareweights for nuclear that consider plants being constructed, capacity factors of solar technologies, selection of crops used for first-gen biofuel production, characteristics of cement production technologies, non-co2 assumptions

Conceptual issues
*How to handle changes to the IEA energy balances
	transportation energy in China and India
	international shipping energy everywhere
*How to handle historical time series of USSR nations
*Is the approach for refining OK?
*Not clear how to handle nuclear and hydro in the historical years (for evaluation runs)

Technical questions
*Do we want two uranium transformation sectors when both have the same conversion ratio? Would this be helpful in the future, to do more life-cycle-type assessment?
*For any sector with only one subsector, should the subsector names always match the supplysector name? same for technology with subsector.

Discussion questions
*Do we want to maintain multiple scenarios (e.g. _adv) in the core scenario set, or should the core scenario set simply be that one scenario? modifications can be saved in separate CSV files.
*Do we want to go about making allowances for people to create large numbers of XML input files from one run of the code? This is done in a few places (e.g. climate impacts, HDD/CDD), where XML files are written out in a for loop, and as such can take any number of sceanrios. But in general, the current set-up generally just builds one of everything, so to make alternate scenarios one has to modify the data assumptions, re-run, and save the XML files generated with different file and or folder names.
*What variables are assumed to be "known" for validation studies with final calibration years earlier than 2010?
	Agricultural yields
	Agricultural demands
	Animal production IO coefficients and shares
	Electric sector efficiencies
	Fixed output of electric sector technologies
	Final demands (buildings, industry, transportation, cement)

As with prior versions, oil refining output is set equal to TPES of liquid fuels in any region, minus the sum of net refinery energy use, CTL output, and GTL output. This means that the equality between supply and demand of liquid fuels is enforced by scaling the refinery output (rather than the fuel consumption quantities). Note that this step would be different if inter-regional trade of refined liquid products were being modeled, in which case global scaling alone would be adequate for balancing production and consumption. Several notes that may be useful for different approaches to modeling the refinery sector.
a) "Other Hydrocarbons" in the IEA energy balances are a refinery input for oil refining, and a refinery output for ctl and gtl. The fuel mapping would need a sector-specific adjustment and conversion factor (e.g.,
	TCOALLIQ / Other Hydrocarbons -> out_ctl / refined liquids / 4.1868e-5, whereas
	TREFINER / Other Hydrocarbons -> in_oil refining / crude oil / -4.1868e-5).
b) Some fuels (e.g. "Refinery Gas") are produced by TREFINER and consumed by EREFINER, so using  positive/negative to distinguish inputs from outputs would result in double counting for assessment of net energy flows. These two rows would need to be aggregated prior to the assignment of input vs output.

Note that this approach for balancing supply and demand of secondary fuels, used for refined liquids and gas processing, is different from the approach for electricity and heat, where the balancing between supply and demand is achieved by scaling demands (after deducting ownuse and distribution losses from the supply). The reasons for the differences in the approaches used in these sectors are as follows:
	(a) for gas processing, there is no sector (FLOW) in the IEA energy balances, so output has to be inferred from consumption;
	(b) inter-regional trade of refined liquid products is relatively high, and scaling demands to be equal to refinery output would distort energy demand from what is in the data. What is done right now instead distorts the input-output coefficients of the refineries. We wouldn't want to do that with electricity because
	(c) the data on electricity output from electricity generators is likely among the most reliable information in the whole dataset. We're also interested in the efficiencies of the power sector, so we shouldn't adjust the output (or also adjust the fuel inputs, which would be a mess). In contrast,
	(d) the refinery average input-output coefficients for a given country/region are calculated as an average across all fuels produced. However, refineries aren't producing a homogeneous product; there are about 20 fuels identified in the IEA energy balances, and the relative shares of each of these products is important for the overall refinery energy balance--particularly the natural gas requirements. This means that, for example, it would not make sense to do a cross-region comparison of refinery efficiencies even without the scaling performed to balance regional supply and demand. The one thing to watch out for is regions whose refined fuel exports (not crude oil) are large compared to present consumption, where near-term future demand growth could cause too much growth in refinery energy use. In the long term, new refineries everywhere are assigned the same coefficients starting in the first future time period.
Nevertheless, if GCAM is expanded to include inter-regional trade in either processed natural gas or refined liquid fuels, or if the refinery products are differentiated, then the method above should be re-evaluated.

One complication is the coal-to-gas transformation. In prior versions we had used "coke oven gas" as a proxy for coal gasification within a region. However, this isn't the appropriate fuel to be using for gasified coal. Coke oven gas is a by-product fuel from steel-making, and in all regions except for China it is pretty much exclusively consumed by the iron and steel industry. In China some is sold to the residential sector. Nevertheless, the appropriate IEA sectors for modeling coal-to-gas are Gas Works, and "For Blended Natural Gas." The problem here is that unlike the sector we had previously chosen, here the output fuel is generally either natural gas or gas works gas, which can not be associated with a single input fuel. For example, in a typical region with non-zero values for the gas works sector, the inputs include a range of coal- and petroleum-derived fuels, and there is one single output which then can not be simply assigned to the fuel inputs. So, unlike in prior versions of the GCAM calibration, and unlike the calibration of biofuels, the coal-to-gas transformation is calibrated from the inputs rather than the outputs, using the same exogenous IO coefficients. This creates somewhat complicated processing (and some comments in the code).